So Rana, at Affectiva you build software that reads emotion from facial expressions.
I was wondering if you could tell us a bit more about
your background and how you got involved in this work.
Sure. So I studied computer science as
an undergraduate at the American University in Cairo
and I was really interested in how
computers change how we connect and communicate with one another.
And then I got an opportunity to study at Cambridge University for
my doctorate degree and that was really my first living abroad experience,
and I realized I was spending more hours with my laptop than I did with any other human.
Yet it was completely oblivious to my mental and emotional state.
So that got me thinking.
What if that computer could read and respond to my emotions just the way
an awesome friend would?
I think when I think of emotional intelligence,
I don't automatically link it with artificial intelligence.
So I was also wondering if you could talk about
some current applications of this technology.
Yeah. Artificial emotional intelligence,
or what we're calling emotion AI,
is the core AI and it cuts across many many industries.
I'll give you two examples.
One is social robots.
Social robots are expected to build a rapport with
its users and understand and respond to social and emotional skills.
Autonomous vehicles is another area where emotion AI plays a really critical role.
Understanding the sentiment inside
the car and also deciding when to relinquish control back to a driver.
And is that driver paying attention?
Is that driver even awake?
That's exciting to hear.
These are problems we're working on teaching at Udacity too.
I have one last question for you.
What kind of advice would you give to a student who
might be wanting to pursue a career in AI?
My advice would be, get hands-on and get building.
Great. So let's keep learning.